

# Data Storage

XMCL data is divided into two parts:

1. XMCL as a cache and database generated by chromium
2. Minecraft related data

## XMCL cache and database

The cache related to XMCL itself is stored in the system appdata path, which is different on different platforms.

::: code-group
```cmd [Windows]
%AppData%\xmcl
```
```cmd [Windows (APPX/appinstaller)]
# Version < 0.34
%LocalAppData%\Packages\XMCL_ncdvebj03zfcm\LocalCache\Roaming\xmcl
# Version >= 0.34 and < 0.40
%LocalAppData%\Packages\XMCL_68mcaawk44tpj\LocalCache\Roaming\xmcl
```
```sh [macOS]
~/Library/Application Support/xmcl
```
```sh [Linux]
~/.config/xmcl
```
:::

:::warning Note
Do not delete the files here unless you know what you are doing.
:::

Here you will find some `json` files used to store various configurations, and the database will also be stored here.

- [User data](../protocol/user.md). Stores users' accounts, skin links, etc. Stored in the `/user.json` file.
- [Global settings](../protocol/setting.md). Global settings, such as language, proxy URL, download node, etc. Stored in the `/settings.json` file.
- [Instance cache](../protocol/instance.md). Records the last selected instance path and the paths of all known instances. Stored in the `/instances.json` file.
- [Java cache](../protocol/java.md). Records detected Java paths, version information, etc. Stored in the `/java.json` file.
- [Resource database](../protocol/resources.md). Metadata for resource files, such as parsed mod information. Stored in `leveldb` format, in the `/resources-v2` folder.
- [Logs](../protocol/logs.md). XMCL historical logs. Stored in the `/logs` folder.

## Minecraft-related data

I believe you are very familiar with the directory structure of Minecraft data.
The data directory of XMCL is slightly different from that of Minecraft:

```sh
"Public Data folder"
└─ 📂mods # Shared mods folder for all instances
  └─ modA.jar # A specific mod file, instance might link mods from it.
├─ 📂resourcepacks # Shared resourcepacks folder for all instances
├─ 📂shaderpacks # Shared shaderpacks folder for all instances
├─ 📂versions # Shared versions folder for all instances
├─ 📂assets # Shared assets folder for all instances
├─ 📂libraries # Shared libraries folder for all instances
└─ 📂instances # Contains the instances created by XMCL
```

Most of the content is actually the same as Minecraft, among which the `instances` folder contains all instance files.